docs/background/index.md, before:

# Learn more about the project.

This section of the documentation talks about the architecture and research goals of [SWE-agent](#swe-agent) and [EnIGMA](#enigma).

Just want to run SWE-agent or EnIGMA? Skip ahead to our [installation notes](../installation/index.md).

## SWE-agent <a name="swe-agent"></a>

SWE-agent turns LMs (e.g. GPT-4) into software engineering agents that can fix issues in GitHub repositories.

On [SWE-bench](https://github.com/princeton-nlp/SWE-bench), SWE-agent resolves **12.29%** of issues, achieving the state-of-the-art performance on the full test set.

We accomplish our results by designing simple LM-centric commands and feedback formats to make it easier for the LM to browse the repository, view, edit and execute code files. We call this an 🤖 **Agent-Computer Interface (ACI)**.
Read more about the ACI [here](aci.md).

SWE-agent is built and maintained by researchers from Princeton University.

For a quick introduction, watch the following video:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/CeMtJ4XObAM?si=W2tyY9EpEe-v12EU" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

A longer lecture touching on the project's motivation, research findings, as well as providing a hands-on tutorial on how to install, use, and configure SWE-agent is provided here:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/d9gcXpiiDao" title="NeurIPS Hacker Cup AI: SWEAgent" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

If you found this work helpful, please consider using the following citation:

```
@misc{yang2024sweagent,
      title={SWE-agent: Agent-Computer Interfaces Enable Automated Software Engineering},
      author={John Yang and Carlos E. Jimenez and Alexander Wettig and Kilian Lieret and Shunyu Yao and Karthik Narasimhan and Ofir Press},
      year={2024},
}
```

## SWE-agent <span class="enigma">EnIGMA</span> <a name="enigma"></a>

SWE-agent <span class="enigma">EnIGMA</span> (Enhanced Interactive Generative Model Agent) adds advanced **offensive cybersecurity capabilities**.

On [NYU CTF benchmark](https://github.com/NYU-LLM-CTF/LLM_CTF_Database), EnIGMA solves **13.5%** of the capture the flag (CTF) challenges, achieving the state-of-the-art performance on the full test set of 200 challenges (leaderboard), **surpassing previous agents by more than 3x** ([leaderboard](https://enigma-agent.github.io/#leaderboard)).

We accomplish our results by extending the [🤖 ACIs](../background/aci.md) first introduced in SWE-agent, to the cybersecurity domain. We establish the novel [**:gear: Interactive Agent Tools** (IATs)](iat.md) concept, which enables our agent to use interactive tools such as a debugger, in a multiprocess way such that the agent still has access to the main shell.

We also use a new **Summarizer** concept integrated into the agent to deal with long context. Read more about our different summarizers [here](../config/summarizers.md).

Specific [demonstrations](../config/demonstrations.md) were built per each CTF category (cryptography, reverse-engineering, forensics, ...), to enhance the model ability to solve new tasks from the same category.

EnIGMA is built and maintained by researchers from Tel-Aviv University, New York University and Princeton University.

For a quick introduction, watch the following video:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/IJxqOsNFiCc?si=xtIxyCcriM9FJexK" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Commit message:

Doc: Add links to paper

docs/background/index.md, after:

# Learn more about the project.

This section of the documentation talks about the architecture and research goals of [SWE-agent](#swe-agent) and [EnIGMA](#enigma).

Just want to run SWE-agent or EnIGMA? Skip ahead to our [installation notes](../installation/index.md).

## SWE-agent <a name="swe-agent"></a>

SWE-agent turns LMs (e.g. GPT-4) into software engineering agents that can fix issues in GitHub repositories.

On [SWE-bench](https://github.com/princeton-nlp/SWE-bench), SWE-agent resolves **12.29%** of issues, achieving the state-of-the-art performance on the full test set.

We accomplish our results by designing simple LM-centric commands and feedback formats to make it easier for the LM to browse the repository, view, edit and execute code files. We call this an 🤖 **Agent-Computer Interface (ACI)**.
Read more about the ACI [here](aci.md).

SWE-agent is built and maintained by researchers from Princeton University.

For a quick introduction, watch the following video:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/CeMtJ4XObAM?si=W2tyY9EpEe-v12EU" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

A longer lecture touching on the project's motivation, research findings, as well as providing a hands-on tutorial on how to install, use, and configure SWE-agent is provided here:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/d9gcXpiiDao" title="NeurIPS Hacker Cup AI: SWEAgent" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

For in-depth information, read our [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.15793). If you found this work helpful, please consider using the following citation:

```
@misc{yang2024sweagent,
      title={SWE-agent: Agent-Computer Interfaces Enable Automated Software Engineering},
      author={John Yang and Carlos E. Jimenez and Alexander Wettig and Kilian Lieret and Shunyu Yao and Karthik Narasimhan and Ofir Press},
      year={2024},
}
```

## SWE-agent <span class="enigma">EnIGMA</span> <a name="enigma"></a>

SWE-agent <span class="enigma">EnIGMA</span> (Enhanced Interactive Generative Model Agent) adds advanced **offensive cybersecurity capabilities**.

On [NYU CTF benchmark](https://github.com/NYU-LLM-CTF/LLM_CTF_Database), EnIGMA solves **13.5%** of the capture the flag (CTF) challenges, achieving the state-of-the-art performance on the full test set of 200 challenges (leaderboard), **surpassing previous agents by more than 3x** ([leaderboard](https://enigma-agent.github.io/#leaderboard)).

We accomplish our results by extending the [🤖 ACIs](../background/aci.md) first introduced in SWE-agent, to the cybersecurity domain. We establish the novel [**:gear: Interactive Agent Tools** (IATs)](iat.md) concept, which enables our agent to use interactive tools such as a debugger, in a multiprocess way such that the agent still has access to the main shell.

We also use a new **Summarizer** concept integrated into the agent to deal with long context. Read more about our different summarizers [here](../config/summarizers.md).

Specific [demonstrations](../config/demonstrations.md) were built per each CTF category (cryptography, reverse-engineering, forensics, ...), to enhance the model ability to solve new tasks from the same category.

EnIGMA is built and maintained by researchers from Tel-Aviv University, New York University and Princeton University.

For a quick introduction, watch the following video:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/IJxqOsNFiCc?si=xtIxyCcriM9FJexK" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

For all the details, read our [paper](https://enigma-agent.github.io/assets/paper.pdf).
