docs/usage/cl_tutorial.md, before:

# Command line usage tutorial

This tutorial walks you through running SWE-agent from the command line.
Beginners might also be interested in the our web-based GUI (see [here](web_ui.md)).
This tutorial focuses on using SWE-agent as a tool to solve individual issues.
Benchmarking SWE-agent is covered [separately](benchmarking.md).
Finally, we have a different tutorial for using SWE-agent for [coding challenges](coding_challenges.md).

## Getting started

After installing SWE-agent, you have the `sweagent` command available. Run `sweagent --help` to see the list of subcommands.
The most important ones are

* `sweagent run`: Run SWE-agent on a single problem statement.
* `sweagent run-batch`: Run SWE-agent on a list of problem statements. This is what you would use for benchmarking, or when
  working with a larger set of historic issues.

In this tutorial, we will focus on the `run` subcommand.

Let's start with an absolutely trivial example and solve an issue about a simple syntax error ([`swe-agent/test-repo #1`](https://github.com/SWE-agent/test-repo/issues/1))

```bash
python run.py \
  --agent.model.name=gpt4 \
  --agent.model.per_instance_cost_limit=2.00 \  # (1)!
  --env.repo.url=https://github.com/SWE-agent/test-repo \
  --problem_statement.url=https://github.com/SWE-agent/test-repo/issues/1
```

1. This limits the inference cost per instance to $2. The default is $3.

!!! tip "Annotations"
    Notice the :material-chevron-right-circle: icon in the left margin in the code snippet? Click on it to display more information
    about the line.

The example above uses the `gpt4` model from OpenAI. In order to use it, you need to add your OpenAI API key to the environment:

```bash
export OPENAI_API_KEY=<your key>
```

alternatively, you can create a `.env` file in your working directory and put the key in there.
More information about environment: TODO


TODO: Update output

<details>
<summary>Output</summary>

```json
--8<-- "docs/usage/cl_tutorial_cmd_1_output.log"
```
</details>

As you can see, the command line options are hierarchical. At the top level, there are three important sections:

* `problem_statement`: What problem are you trying to solve?
* `agent`: How do you want to solve the problem? This includes setting up the LM with `--agent.model`.
* `env`: What is the environment in which the problem statement should be solved?
  This includes setting the repository/folder with the source files with `--env.repo`, as well as docker images and other dependencies.
  This will also control where the code is executed (in a local container or in the cloud).


Watching the output, you can notice several stages:

1. Setting up the **deployment**: SWE-agent lets LMs execute actions in sandboxed environments. It can run these environments
   in docker containers (default), on modal, AWS fargate, or directly on your computer (not recommended).
   When the deployment starts, you will notice a "starting runtime" message that takes a few seconds. The runtime is
   what is executing the commands within your deployment.
2. Setting up **tools**: The tools that you specified are copied and installed within the environment.
3. **System and instance prompts**: The initial instructions are shown to the LM.
4. **Main loop**: The LM starts to suggest and execute actions.
5. **Submission**: The LM calls `submit` and we extract the patch (i.e., the changes to the source code that solve the problem).

The complete details of the run are saved as a "trajectory" file (more about them [here](trajectories.md)). They can also be turned into new [demonstrations](../config/demonstrations.md) together with other log and output files.


## A few more examples

Before we continue with a more structured explanation of the command line options, here are some more examples that you might find immediately useful:

```bash title="Local repository with problem statement from file and custom docker image" hl_lines="4 5 6"
git clone https://github.com/SWE-agent/test-repo.git
python run.py \
  --agent.model.name=claude-3.5 \  # (1)!
  --env.repo.path=test-repo \
  --problem_statement.path=test-repo/problem_statements/1.md \
  --env.deployment.image=python:3.12  # (2)!
```

1. Make sure to add anthropic keys to the environment for this one!
2. This points to the [dockerhub image](https://hub.docker.com/_/python) of the same name

```bash title="Github repo with custom problem statement" hl_lines="4"
python run.py \
  ...
  --env.repo.url=https://github.com/SWE-agent/test-repo \
  --problem_statement.text="Hey, can you fix all the bugs?"
```

For the next example, we will use a cloud-based execution environment instead of using local docker containers.
For this, you first need to set up a modal account, following the instructions at XXX

```bash title="Deployment on modal (cloud-based execution)" hl_lines="4"
python run.py \
  ...
  --env.deployment.type=modal \
  --env.deployment.image=python:3.12
```

!!! tip "All options"
    Run `python run.py --help` to see all available options for `run.py`. This tutorial will only cover a subset of options.

## Configuration basics

All configuration options can be specified either in `.yaml`



## Specifying the repository

!!! note "Operating in batch mode: Running on SWE-bench and other benchmark sets"
    If you want to run SWE-agent in batch mode on SWE-bench or another whole evaluation set, see
    [benchmarking](benchmarking.md). This tutorial focuses on using SWE-agent on
    individual issues.

In the above example, the repository/codebase is inferred from the `--data_path`.
This options is currently only available for GitHub issues.
For all other use cases, you can specify `--repo_path`, which accepts either GitHub
URLs or paths to local repositories.

To try it out, let's clone the test repository from the previous section.

```bash
git clone git@github.com:SWE-agent/test-repo.git
```

and then run

```bash hl_lines="2 3 5"
python run.py \
  --data_path /path/to/test-repo/problem_statements/1.md \
  --repo_path /path/to/test-repo \
  --config_file config/default_from_url.yaml \
  --apply_patch_locally
```

where you replaced paths with the prefix `/path/to/.../` with the actual paths to the corresponding file/directory.

We have also added a new flag, `--apply_patch_locally`, which will make SWE-agent apply the changes to the local repository (if it believes that it has successfully solved the issue).

You can mix and match the different ways of specifying problem statements and repositories. For example, any of the following combination of options also works

* Local problem statement with GitHub repository (`--data_path /path/to/problem.md --repo_path https://github.com/...`): Let SWE-agent work on something that wasn't reported yet
* GitHub issue with local repository (`--data_path https://github.com/.../issues/.. --repo_path /path/to/... --apply_patch_locally`): Let SWE-agent solve a GitHub issue locally (for example to edit the solution afterwards)
* GitHub issue with different GitHub repository: Useful with the `--open_pr` flag (see [below](#taking-actions)) when working from a fork.

In addition, if `--repo_path` points to a GitHub repository, you can use `--base_commit` to specify

* A branch name (e.g., `dev`),
* A tag (e.g., `v1.0.0`),
* A commit hash (e.g., `a4464baca1f28d7733337df6e4daa6c1ed920336`).

SWE-agent will then start from this commit when trying to solve the problem.

!!! warning "Uncommitted changes"
    When running with a local `--repo_path`, SWE-agent will use the last commit, i.e., all local, uncommitted changes will not be seen by SWE-agent.

## Installing dependencies and setting up the environment <a name="environment-setup"></a>

Now let's move on to a slightly more complicated issue ([`swe-agent/test-repo #22`](https://github.com/SWE-agent/test-repo/issues/22)).

What makes it more complicated? This time the problematic code is part of a library `testpkg`, so SWE-agent first has to install the package in order to reproduce the issue before searching for the problematic code.

In most circumstances, GPT4 will attempt to install the package and requirements (usually with some form of `pip install .` or `pip install pkg`). However, this wastes valuable queries to the LM. In addition, you might need to run your software for a specific python version or have other specific environment settings. The `--environment_setup` flag is used to fix this problem.

Let's try it:

```bash hl_lines="4"
python run.py \
  --data_path https://github.com/SWE-agent/test-repo/issues/22 \
  --config_file config/default_from_url.yaml \
  --environment_setup config/environment_setup/py310_default.yaml
```

This time, `pip install -e .` is called before SWE-agent gets to work, installing the package defined in the repository.

REMOVED OUTDATED

## Speeding up SWE-agent <a name="speedup"></a>

Do we have anything to mention here? (mostly removed outdated stuff)

## Taking actions

* As mentioned [above](#specifying-the-repository), you can use `--apply_patch_locally` to have SWE-agent apply successful solution attempts to local files.
* Alternatively, when running on a GitHub issue, you can have the agent automatically open a PR if the issue has been solved by supplying the `--open_pr` flag.
  Please use this feature responsibly (on your own repositories or after careful consideration).

Alternatively, you can always retrieve the patch that was generated by SWE-agent.
Watch out for the following message in the log:


```
╭──────────────────────────── 🎉 Submission successful 🎉 ────────────────────────────╮
│ SWE-agent has produced a patch that it believes will solve the issue you submitted! │
│ Use the code snippet below to inspect or apply it!                                  │
╰─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
```

And follow the instructions below it:

```bash
 # The patch has been saved to your local filesystem at:
 PATCH_FILE_PATH='/Users/.../patches/05917d.patch'
 # Inspect it:
 cat "${PATCH_FILE_PATH}"
 # Apply it to a local repository:
 cd <your local repo root>
 git apply "${PATCH_FILE_PATH}"
```

{% include-markdown "../_footer.md" %}

Commit message:

Rename url->github_url in CL and config

docs/usage/cl_tutorial.md, after:

# Command line usage tutorial

This tutorial walks you through running SWE-agent from the command line.
Beginners might also be interested in the our web-based GUI (see [here](web_ui.md)).
This tutorial focuses on using SWE-agent as a tool to solve individual issues.
Benchmarking SWE-agent is covered [separately](benchmarking.md).
Finally, we have a different tutorial for using SWE-agent for [coding challenges](coding_challenges.md).

## Getting started

After installing SWE-agent, you have the `sweagent` command available. Run `sweagent --help` to see the list of subcommands.
The most important ones are

* `sweagent run`: Run SWE-agent on a single problem statement.
* `sweagent run-batch`: Run SWE-agent on a list of problem statements. This is what you would use for benchmarking, or when
  working with a larger set of historic issues.

In this tutorial, we will focus on the `run` subcommand.

Let's start with an absolutely trivial example and solve an issue about a simple syntax error ([`swe-agent/test-repo #1`](https://github.com/SWE-agent/test-repo/issues/1))

```bash
python run.py \
  --agent.model.name=gpt4 \
  --agent.model.per_instance_cost_limit=2.00 \  # (1)!
  --env.repo.github_url=https://github.com/SWE-agent/test-repo \
  --problem_statement.github_url=https://github.com/SWE-agent/test-repo/issues/1
```

1. This limits the inference cost per instance to $2. The default is $3.

!!! tip "Annotations"
    Notice the :material-chevron-right-circle: icon in the left margin in the code snippet? Click on it to display more information
    about the line.

The example above uses the `gpt4` model from OpenAI. In order to use it, you need to add your OpenAI API key to the environment:

```bash
export OPENAI_API_KEY=<your key>
```

alternatively, you can create a `.env` file in your working directory and put the key in there.
More information about environment: TODO


TODO: Update output

<details>
<summary>Output</summary>

```json
--8<-- "docs/usage/cl_tutorial_cmd_1_output.log"
```
</details>

As you can see, the command line options are hierarchical. At the top level, there are three important sections:

* `problem_statement`: What problem are you trying to solve?
* `agent`: How do you want to solve the problem? This includes setting up the LM with `--agent.model`.
* `env`: What is the environment in which the problem statement should be solved?
  This includes setting the repository/folder with the source files with `--env.repo`, as well as docker images and other dependencies.
  This will also control where the code is executed (in a local container or in the cloud).


Watching the output, you can notice several stages:

1. Setting up the **deployment**: SWE-agent lets LMs execute actions in sandboxed environments. It can run these environments
   in docker containers (default), on modal, AWS fargate, or directly on your computer (not recommended).
   When the deployment starts, you will notice a "starting runtime" message that takes a few seconds. The runtime is
   what is executing the commands within your deployment.
2. Setting up **tools**: The tools that you specified are copied and installed within the environment.
3. **System and instance prompts**: The initial instructions are shown to the LM.
4. **Main loop**: The LM starts to suggest and execute actions.
5. **Submission**: The LM calls `submit` and we extract the patch (i.e., the changes to the source code that solve the problem).

The complete details of the run are saved as a "trajectory" file (more about them [here](trajectories.md)). They can also be turned into new [demonstrations](../config/demonstrations.md) together with other log and output files.


## A few more examples

Before we continue with a more structured explanation of the command line options, here are some more examples that you might find immediately useful:

```bash title="Local repository with problem statement from file and custom docker image" hl_lines="4 5 6"
git clone https://github.com/SWE-agent/test-repo.git
python run.py \
  --agent.model.name=claude-3.5 \  # (1)!
  --env.repo.path=test-repo \
  --problem_statement.path=test-repo/problem_statements/1.md \
  --env.deployment.image=python:3.12  # (2)!
```

1. Make sure to add anthropic keys to the environment for this one!
2. This points to the [dockerhub image](https://hub.docker.com/_/python) of the same name

```bash title="Github repo with custom problem statement" hl_lines="4"
python run.py \
  ...
  --env.repo.github_url=https://github.com/SWE-agent/test-repo \
  --problem_statement.text="Hey, can you fix all the bugs?"
```

For the next example, we will use a cloud-based execution environment instead of using local docker containers.
For this, you first need to set up a modal account, following the instructions at XXX

```bash title="Deployment on modal (cloud-based execution)" hl_lines="4"
python run.py \
  ...
  --env.deployment.type=modal \
  --env.deployment.image=python:3.12
```

!!! tip "All options"
    Run `python run.py --help` to see all available options for `run.py`. This tutorial will only cover a subset of options.

## Configuration basics

All configuration options can be specified either in one or more `.yaml` files, or as command line arguments. For example, our first command can be written as

```bash
python run.py --config my_run.yaml
```

with

```yaml title="my_run.yaml"
agent:
  model:
    name: gpt4
    per_instance_cost_limit: 2.00
env:
  repo:
    github_url: https://github.com/SWE-agent/test-repo
problem_statement:
  github_url: https://github.com/SWE-agent/test-repo/issues/1
```


## Specifying the repository

!!! note "Operating in batch mode: Running on SWE-bench and other benchmark sets"
    If you want to run SWE-agent in batch mode on SWE-bench or another whole evaluation set, see
    [benchmarking](benchmarking.md). This tutorial focuses on using SWE-agent on
    individual issues.

In the above example, the repository/codebase is inferred from the `--data_path`.
This options is currently only available for GitHub issues.
For all other use cases, you can specify `--repo_path`, which accepts either GitHub
URLs or paths to local repositories.

To try it out, let's clone the test repository from the previous section.

```bash
git clone git@github.com:SWE-agent/test-repo.git
```

and then run

```bash hl_lines="2 3 5"
python run.py \
  --data_path /path/to/test-repo/problem_statements/1.md \
  --repo_path /path/to/test-repo \
  --config_file config/default_from_url.yaml \
  --apply_patch_locally
```

where you replaced paths with the prefix `/path/to/.../` with the actual paths to the corresponding file/directory.

We have also added a new flag, `--apply_patch_locally`, which will make SWE-agent apply the changes to the local repository (if it believes that it has successfully solved the issue).

You can mix and match the different ways of specifying problem statements and repositories. For example, any of the following combination of options also works

* Local problem statement with GitHub repository (`--data_path /path/to/problem.md --repo_path https://github.com/...`): Let SWE-agent work on something that wasn't reported yet
* GitHub issue with local repository (`--data_path https://github.com/.../issues/.. --repo_path /path/to/... --apply_patch_locally`): Let SWE-agent solve a GitHub issue locally (for example to edit the solution afterwards)
* GitHub issue with different GitHub repository: Useful with the `--open_pr` flag (see [below](#taking-actions)) when working from a fork.

In addition, if `--repo_path` points to a GitHub repository, you can use `--base_commit` to specify

* A branch name (e.g., `dev`),
* A tag (e.g., `v1.0.0`),
* A commit hash (e.g., `a4464baca1f28d7733337df6e4daa6c1ed920336`).

SWE-agent will then start from this commit when trying to solve the problem.

!!! warning "Uncommitted changes"
    When running with a local `--repo_path`, SWE-agent will use the last commit, i.e., all local, uncommitted changes will not be seen by SWE-agent.

## Installing dependencies and setting up the environment <a name="environment-setup"></a>

Now let's move on to a slightly more complicated issue ([`swe-agent/test-repo #22`](https://github.com/SWE-agent/test-repo/issues/22)).

What makes it more complicated? This time the problematic code is part of a library `testpkg`, so SWE-agent first has to install the package in order to reproduce the issue before searching for the problematic code.

In most circumstances, GPT4 will attempt to install the package and requirements (usually with some form of `pip install .` or `pip install pkg`). However, this wastes valuable queries to the LM. In addition, you might need to run your software for a specific python version or have other specific environment settings. The `--environment_setup` flag is used to fix this problem.

Let's try it:

```bash hl_lines="4"
python run.py \
  --data_path https://github.com/SWE-agent/test-repo/issues/22 \
  --config_file config/default_from_url.yaml \
  --environment_setup config/environment_setup/py310_default.yaml
```

This time, `pip install -e .` is called before SWE-agent gets to work, installing the package defined in the repository.

REMOVED OUTDATED

## Speeding up SWE-agent <a name="speedup"></a>

Do we have anything to mention here? (mostly removed outdated stuff)

## Taking actions

* As mentioned [above](#specifying-the-repository), you can use `--apply_patch_locally` to have SWE-agent apply successful solution attempts to local files.
* Alternatively, when running on a GitHub issue, you can have the agent automatically open a PR if the issue has been solved by supplying the `--open_pr` flag.
  Please use this feature responsibly (on your own repositories or after careful consideration).

Alternatively, you can always retrieve the patch that was generated by SWE-agent.
Watch out for the following message in the log:


```
╭──────────────────────────── 🎉 Submission successful 🎉 ────────────────────────────╮
│ SWE-agent has produced a patch that it believes will solve the issue you submitted! │
│ Use the code snippet below to inspect or apply it!                                  │
╰─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
```

And follow the instructions below it:

```bash
 # The patch has been saved to your local filesystem at:
 PATCH_FILE_PATH='/Users/.../patches/05917d.patch'
 # Inspect it:
 cat "${PATCH_FILE_PATH}"
 # Apply it to a local repository:
 cd <your local repo root>
 git apply "${PATCH_FILE_PATH}"
```

{% include-markdown "../_footer.md" %}
